todo.md, before:

- [x] GITHUB
- [x] **NEED ENCAPSULATION AND GETTERS / SETTERS!**
- [ ] Arrows: Resultant be fixed amount of size, e.g. 1.5*size + 10 or something. Scale everything else according to that. Might not be a good idea though? Maybe just leave as is, it works well!
- [ ] Polymorphism with celestial body class, asteroid, planet and sun inherit. Asteroids should receive less simulation time because they *will* lag it otherwise lmao.
- [ ] Try including composition / aggregation somewhere? Idk how it'd work, maybe when launching rockets or something they could be created by the planet they're launched from.
- [ ] x=0,y=1 indexing? To make coordinates make more sense. Or X Y.
- [x] Button to switch focus. I.e. comDisplacement becomes focusDisplacement.
- [ ] Optimisation, e.g. not drawing things that are off-screen.
	- Check with **size** so that you don't delete stuff the moment its centre is off-screen, only when the entire sprite is off-screen.
- [ ] Add support for varying screen sizes.
- [ ] Planet choices but also *presets*
	- [ ] CONFIG FILE!
	- [ ] More constants for configurable things
- [ ] Change more stuff into functions, should be very modular and easy to change.
	- [ ] E.g. make DrawLines() a function, shift everything to the focus a function, make simulating law of gravity on planets a function, just wrap it up, main loop should really be quite small running the few main functions and nothing else.
- [ ] Change everything to be in SI
	- [ ] Accurate G constant
	- [ ] dConstant
		- More metres per pixel basically
		- Display on log scale? Could make the system actually look good while still being accurate.
		- Or be able to zoom out without the planet size changing quite as much?
		- **See reddit thing sent in Connor DMs**
	- [ ] Change origin to be in more sensible location, either bottom left or centre of screen
- [ ] Change everything to be with sprites (same for collisions program, can then use sprite collision detection!)
- [ ] *COLLISIONS*
	- There is a separate collisions program in Planets, check it out! Needs some fixes but should be a good template for implementing it into the main program (and make sure to replace size with mass in the momentum equation when porting it over to planets)
	- [ ] Add angle of incidence (e.g. if circle hits other circle at 45 degree angle with only horizontal vel, the circle being hit should get upwards vel and horizontal vel)
	- [ ] Do KE checks after this to make sure it's still preserved
- [ ] Drag to move screen
- [ ] Scoreboard for speed, distance from c.o.m., etc? Could use natural mergesort or similarly complex sorting algorithm.
- [ ] Optimise lines to not use a list, just draw line and then let fade over time. See if that's possible with pygame, maybe ask around for help online + friends + canoe
- [ ] A querying thing to query e.g. a nasa site to auto-add any planets you could want for your realistic solar system preset?
- [ ] Zoom in / out?
- [x] Orbit line not drawn inside of planet
	- [x] Simplest way might just be layers rather than checking if the line is in the planet? Just draw the planets on top of the lines.
- [x] Lines showing *actual* orbit, ignoring c.o.m. shifting
- [ ] Lines showing forces, optional, can toggle
- [ ] Hash table for the planets and accessing them!
- [ ] Utility program to calculate optimal orbit dist / speed and things
- [ ] Satellites
	- Could inherit velocity and position from planet? Some form of inheritance would be very good for marks.
	- Move and second law should add planet velocity / force but also orbital velocity around host planet
	- Only take into account interaction only with that planet maybe? Depends on how computationally intensive it all is.
- [ ] Test making 3d. **TEST.** Do in separate branch, see what graphics libraries needed, see how hard it would be to implement.
	- [ ] If too difficult then could stick to same 2d graphics but make 3d and *project* it?
	- [ ]  ^^ if doing this then make objects smaller the further they are from plane? To simulate distance? And also hide them if they're behind another object.
	- Check pinned message in Ozz's DMs on perspective scaling
- [ ] NASA JPL Horizon Systems querying, add objects? Could have presets for solar system, or earth at centre with the NEOs, Saturn and its rings + moons, etc. Would need to optimise line drawing for lots of objects though.
	- [ ] Add info to them? Lean into the educational aspect and display info when clicking on objects and stuff.
	- [ ] Check with Dr Turnbull about this!
	- [ ] Could integrate a *lot* of cool database-y stuff for this!
	- [ ] Maybe split this into its own program and then import in main cde? Ask Mr Bersey about if projects should have multiple program files.

Commit message:

Just getting some more stuff done.

todo.md, after:

- [x] GITHUB
- [x] **NEED ENCAPSULATION AND GETTERS / SETTERS!**
- [x] Arrows: Resultant be fixed amount of size, e.g. 1.5*size + 10 or something. Scale everything else according to that. Might not be a good idea though? Maybe just leave as is, it works well!
- [ ] Polymorphism with celestial body class, asteroid, planet and sun inherit. Asteroids should receive less simulation time because they *will* lag it otherwise lmao. Also asteroids do NOT get orbital lines!!
- [ ] Try including composition / aggregation somewhere? Idk how it'd work, maybe when launching rockets or something they could be created by the planet they're launched from.
- [ ] x=0,y=1 indexing? To make coordinates make more sense. Or X Y.
- [x] Button to switch focus. I.e. comDisplacement becomes focusDisplacement.
- [x] Optimisation, e.g. not drawing things that are off-screen.
- [ ] Add support for varying screen sizes.
- [ ] Planet choices but also *presets*
	- [ ] CONFIG FILE!
	- [ ] More constants for configurable things
- [ ] Change more stuff into functions, should be very modular and easy to change.
	- [ ] E.g. make DrawLines() a function, shift everything to the focus a function, make simulating law of gravity on planets a function, just wrap it up, main loop should really be quite small running the few main functions and nothing else.
- [ ] Change everything to be in SI
	- [ ] Accurate G constant
	- [ ] dConstant
		- More metres per pixel basically
		- Display on log scale? Could make the system actually look good while still being accurate.
		- Or be able to zoom out without the planet size changing quite as much?
		- **See reddit thing sent in Connor DMs**
	- [ ] Change origin to be in more sensible location, either bottom left or centre of screen
- [ ] Change everything to be with sprites (same for collisions program, can then use sprite collision detection!)
- [ ] *COLLISIONS*
	- There is a separate collisions program in Planets, check it out! Needs some fixes but should be a good template for implementing it into the main program (and make sure to replace size with mass in the momentum equation when porting it over to planets)
	- [ ] Add angle of incidence (e.g. if circle hits other circle at 45 degree angle with only horizontal vel, the circle being hit should get upwards vel and horizontal vel)
	- [ ] Do KE checks after this to make sure it's still preserved
- [ ] Drag to move screen
- [ ] Scoreboard for speed, distance from c.o.m., etc? Could use natural mergesort or similarly complex sorting algorithm.
- [ ] Optimise lines to not use a list, just draw line and then let fade over time. See if that's possible with pygame, maybe ask around for help online + friends + canoe
- [ ] A querying thing to query e.g. a nasa site to auto-add any planets you could want for your realistic solar system preset?
- [ ] Zoom in / out?
- [x] Orbit line not drawn inside of planet
	- [x] Simplest way might just be layers rather than checking if the line is in the planet? Just draw the planets on top of the lines.
- [x] Lines showing *actual* orbit, ignoring c.o.m. shifting
- [ ] Lines showing forces, optional, can toggle
- [ ] Hash table for the planets and accessing them!
- [ ] Utility program to calculate optimal orbit dist / speed and things
- [ ] Satellites
	- Could inherit velocity and position from planet? Some form of inheritance would be very good for marks.
	- Move and second law should add planet velocity / force but also orbital velocity around host planet
	- Only take into account interaction only with that planet maybe? Depends on how computationally intensive it all is.
- [ ] Test making 3d. **TEST.** Do in separate branch, see what graphics libraries needed, see how hard it would be to implement.
	- [ ] If too difficult then could stick to same 2d graphics but make 3d and *project* it?
	- [ ]  ^^ if doing this then make objects smaller the further they are from plane? To simulate distance? And also hide them if they're behind another object.
	- Check pinned message in Ozz's DMs on perspective scaling
- [ ] NASA JPL Horizon Systems querying, add objects? Could have presets for solar system, or earth at centre with the NEOs, Saturn and its rings + moons, etc. Would need to optimise line drawing for lots of objects though.
	- [ ] Add info to them? Lean into the educational aspect and display info when clicking on objects and stuff.
	- [ ] Check with Dr Turnbull about this!
	- [ ] Could integrate a *lot* of cool database-y stuff for this!
	- [ ] Maybe split this into its own program and then import in main cde? Ask Mr Bersey about if projects should have multiple program files.
